THE IMPOSTER PRINCE
- Praise be to God.
- May God be praised.
This is how Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri
passed away.
And he was cremated on the morning
of May 9th, 1909.
That's all, Your Honour.
Prosecution may proceed now.
Thank you, Your Honour.
As the the first witness,
I would like to call upon a corpse.
The corpse that was allegedly cremated
24 years ago on the 9th of May, 1909.
The name of the corpse is
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
Hey beautiful, come join the festivities
Forget all your doubts in
the rhythm of the music
The door is open, no more delay
Hey beautiful, come join the festivities
The path of the morning is adorned
with the fragrance of the flowers
Separation is a vacation
On the path of love
Walk that path...
Walk that path and come to me,
my beloved, my beautiful
Hey beautiful, come join the festivities
Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!
Set up the chess board.
Black or white?
I have no other choice... So, white.
Last time, I've only taken...
I couldn't give anything back.
Please play properly this time.
When did he go to sleep?
He called me after that woman left.
Kadambari?
Who else?
That dirty wench!
I heard my brother has built her
a mansion nearby...
You've heard right, ma'am.
Is this the fate of the royals then, Anand?
Even with people like us
around who love him...
There'll be hundreds
who will leech him off.
What can we do, ma'am?
- I love him more than my own brother...
- That's enough!
You may leave now.
I'll stay with my brother.
What's the matter?
Early in the morning...
What is it, Minu?
What is this?
Something religious?
It's nothing.
At least, nothing important.
Oh no... I completely forgot.
What do you want?
Just name it.
Tell me.
I want you to stop drinking.
Stop drinking.
I can consider it if you wake me up
with sweet curd every morning.
Brother...
Why is the life line
on your palm so strange?
See, it's split in the middle.
Because I play two roles in my life.
What?
First, a feudal lord who loves women and
alcohol... Loves to make the most of life.
And second, a feudal lord who takes care of
and protects his subjects, like a guardian.
Are you on your period?
I asked are you on your period?
Well then...
Come to my room at 8 o'clock.
Anthony will make the arrangements.
Did you call for me?
Mahen, do you know that the area of
the Bikrampur estate is 579 square miles?
And the annual income of the estate
is Rs. 10 lakhs.
Did you know that this comes
from 2274 villages and 5 lakh people?
They believe that their landlord is spending
all his time for the welfare of his subjects.
Not with some prostitute.
That's enough.
The way you're responsible for us.
You've responsibilty
towards the estate too.
- When elder brother is there...
- You're getting married next month.
Impossible! I've no intentions
of playing with some kid.
I'd rather get a hold of the estate
from the manager.
When your father left us
at such a young age...
We were extremely helpless.
Only I know how your mother
has brought you up.
She has taken care of the household.
She gave Kaliprasanna a tough fight
to keep the estate in the family.
You don't have to do it for anyone else.
Please do it for me, your grandmother.
You and Minu always take advantage
of my love for you.
It's good to know that
I'm not in that list.
My labour pain was probably
just a disease.
Mother, you know that's not what I meant.
We speak so rarely, it's difficult for me
to understand.
Please shed some tears for me
when I am gone.
Otherwise, people might think bad of you.
Daughter-in-law, can't
you control yourself?
Talking to you is a task...
About your marriage...
This marriage is not just about you.
It's also because the estate needs an heir.
The British are just waiting
to pounce on the estate.
And the Court of Wards...
closing in like the vultures.
- Oh yes, Meyers. Sit.
- Thank you, sir.
I trust you've been discreet.
Yes, my lord. They suspect nothing.
Not yet, at least.
Good but you also know that it's only a
matter of time before they do suspect and...
When they do, they'll remove you
from your post.
- Is that clear?
- Yes, sir.
Good because it's then
that we will move in.
With your official letter of complaint,
detailing among other things...
corruption, interference,
mismanagement, money laundering...
This is the first step
towards the Court of Wards
taking over entire
possession of the estate.
- Did you obtain the documents I requested?
- Yes, sir.
Show them to me.
Thank you.
Ah yes! Yes, yes! Very good!
But sir what about the princes?
Oh the prodigal princes!
Yes, well...
In lieu of their share of their erstwhile
estate, they'll receive a fixed income.
A monthly payment.
Just enough to keep the people
and their nationalistic outrage at bay.
Yes, sir. Despite all
his feudal excesses...
The kind of popularity that
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri enjoys...
amongst the common people of his estate
is unbelievable.
Yes, I'm aware of it.
But I'm also aware of how he and
his brothers are carrying on.
I wouldn't be surprised if
the court ultimatel
had to give their pensions
to three widows instead.
And will the estate pass
over to Her Majesty, then?
Well, that is the idea.
But to tell you for sure, I'd have to go
very closely over this documentation.
Always remember, Meyers...
In the British empire,
whether you annexe, colonise,
whether you intrude
or take over by force...
It's the paperwork that's most important.
How will I fetch the water now, mate?
My lover awaits at the river bank
I've given up all my modesty, mate
I smile and embrace him
How will I fetch the water now, mate?
Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!
Isn't Phoolmala looking very thin?
Almost skeletal, sir.
Are you not feeding her right, Dilawar?
She is eating quite well, sir.
I think she missed you.
Phoolmala.
Where's the list, Birendra?
There are 17 meritorious students, my lord.
I've already spoken to their parents.
Great!
Make arrangements to send them
to Calcutta for further studies.
Yes, my lord.
- And Billu?
- Yes, sir...
What happened to the fathers of the girls?
They are coming tomorrow, my lord.
- Make sure we have some cash.
- Yes, sir.
And listen.
Send some relief to the Muslim
fishing village that got burnt down.
Let's go, Phoolmala.
- Let's go.
- Watch out!
Move... Let me see...
My lord, careful...
Please be careful.
Please be careful
with your foot, my lord.
Please take it easy, my lord.
It's okay.
You may leave.
Who are you?
Why are you crying?
- Chandraboti...
- What?
Mrs. Chandraboti Devi...
What are you doing in my room?
I'm your wife...
Oh...
Right... Right...
I think I heard
that I got married.
How do you like it here?
I... I miss home.
What happened to your foot?
It's just a small scratch.
- I'll make arrangements for you to go home...
- No, no...
I want to stay with you.
Okay.
What did you say your name is?
Mrs. Chandraboti Devi.
Chandraboti...
Listen, Chandraboti...
I'm not a very good person.
I like to spend my time with friends,
music, alcohol, food, women etc.
I mean women... Not little girls okay...
I like mature women not kids.
I don't know how much time
I'll have for you.
There are lots of servants.
My brothers' wives...
My mother is also there.
Everything you need
and want will be available.
You have an elder brother, right?
Ask him to come and stay here.
I'll take care of it.
Okay?
What is it?
Okay fine...
I'll come to you when I can.
I'll try to spend time with you.
But I can also disappear for days.
Okay?
How many days?
Might be years.
Where is Mahendra?
Tell him that the British
have sent a request from Calcutta.
Before he returns to London, Lord Kitchener
wants to go on a safari to hunt tigers.
We'll have to make all the arrangements.
Mahendra knows where all
the hunting gear is.
But where is he?
- Where is he?
- In the dance hall, sir.
At this odd hour?
My tears, they don't dry
How can I put kohl on my eyes?
I can barely see my lover's face
How will I wish misfortune away?
My tears, they don't dry
You didn't attend
Lord Kitchener's dinner reception?
No, Satya...
I don't like the British
or their etiquette.
And I don't want to learn it either.
I was supposed to make arrangements
for the hunt.
That's why I am looking for a tiger.
That's all.
Tell me, how is your sister?
She is well.
She feels depressed sometimes
when you're not around.
That is the life of a queen, Satya.
Loneliness...
Yes, yes... I understand.
The king has many responsibilties.
A huge estate, subjects, official duty.
She understands it too.
And you've taken care of everything.
There's only thing that troubles me
as her brother.
What is that?
This world is very ruthless, my lord.
I know how much you love Chandra.
But after you're gone...
May you live till 100...
But if something happens to you.
Then my sister will be all alone.
- And the others...
- What about the others?
Greed can make good people
do evil things.
Not my place to say it...
The others in your family
are not very fond of Chandra.
They don't like me either.
We come from a poor family.
I don't know what will happen to us
when you're not watching over us.
I had no idea about this, Satya.
- What is your suggestion?
- Nothing much...
A life insurance policy.
God forbid, something happens to you...
Chandra won't be helpless.
I know a good insurance company
in Calcutta...
Stop... Stop... Stop...
Be careful...
don't kill the tiger.
Only shoot to injure.
So that it's movement is restricted.
And the Englishman can find it easily.
To your right, my lord!
- Are you okay?
- Yes, I'm fine...
What were you saying?
Which insurance company in Calcutta?
What?
Please come.
We're here, my lord.
Who is the policy holder?
Would you like to come with me, sir,
for the medical examination?
Huh?
Do you follow English, sir?
No English.
Well, I need to ask some questions...
and check you
as part of the medical process.
I guess we'll need an interpreter...
Mr. Sen! Mr. Sen!
He is the medical examiner
from the insurance company.
Just a routine check up.
Dr. Caddy? Dr. Caddy?
He's all yours now.
- Come with me, sir.
- Please come.
This way please.
Satya, go back to Bikrampur.
I'll stay here for a few more days.
I stripped naked today.
What was the result?
An old English doctor poked me
and wrote some things down.
Let's see if doing it again
yields more exciting results.
- But sir...
- Satya...
I've already made up my mind.
- Anthony...
- Yes, my lord.
I've heard many enchanting stories
about the beautiful women of Calcutta.
Brand new faces, fresh bodies...
Let's experiment.
Where beauty is lit up by the moonlight
The forehead is adorned by vermillion
Bring that beauty
Hey beautiful, come join the festivities
Mother's letter.
Did he come home last night?
No.
Don't you feel angry, Chandra?
Don't you feel rage?
Will you still tolerate this?
Is this why you studied
at the best school in Calcutta?
His anaemic wife suffers
and he's out with hookers...
- For he's a man...
- Destiny, brother.
Let it be.
Do you know what Bikrampur was called
during the Mahabharata era?
Chhedi.
And who was the king of Chhedi?
Shishupal.
Shishupal... whose 100th mistake
was his last.
I forgot to tell you.
A letter has come for you.
- When?
- Two days back.
One moment.
Here you go.
What are you doing here by yourself?
Just like that...
You look very worried.
I'm a little worried
about his lordship's health.
Can you share your concerns
with me?
Yes...
What I've diagnosed is...
His hands, feet and nose...
- Yes, the marks...
- Those are gummatous ulcers.
I think...
- it's syphilis.
- Syphilis?
- Is it worse than TB or cholera?
- It's fatal.
Syphilis is the most dangerous
venereal disease.
It warrants the best medical attention
and a lot of rest.
- Or else...
- Or else?
It could cost him his life.
If his condition worsens then...
He'll start losing his hair
and his skin will rot and then...
Do you like it here, Ashwini?
What?
This life? This mansion?
Do you like this kind of life?
- Yes...
- Really?
They're a little ill mannered
and fickle minded...
Sometimes, they'll be kind
and generous...
And at other times,
they can treat people like dirt.
All that is tolerable...
My father was this family's
house physician.
But the way they've treated
my father in public...
I feel really bad.
But what can I do?
They're paying
for my medical studies.
- They've given me a home...
- Not for long.
Pardon?
This place you call home...
It won't be there for long.
The British are waiting
to take over Bikrampur.
Thanks to Mr. Rankin and Mr. Meyers,
even though the princes are alive...
the Bikrampur estate is already governed
by the Court of Wards.
What will happen
when the princes die?
But why will they die so soon?
Look at their lifestyle.
Alcohol, hunting, riding, eating habits,
women, syphilis...
- Which can be treated...
- Ashwini...
His lordship is ill.
Can we take him somewhere
to recuperate?
- But in his condition...
- Exactly because of that...
To make his health better if we can
take him somewhere with fresh air...
Where should we take him?
Darjeeling?
Malati...
Yes, my lord... Darjeeling.
You'll heal much faster
in unpolluted Darjeeling.
You hardly get any rest here.
You'll get the rest you need.
I understand that the mountain air
is good for me.
But what about the mountain girls?
Can you arrange for that?
- My lord...
- Satya...
- Doctor...
- Yes, my lord...
The king's body will have wounds...
It'll have injuries and diseases too...
The wounds are medals won
at battle.
The injuries are titles earned
for running the estate.
And the diseases...
If he can sustain a horde of harmful relatives
and disloyal subjects on the estate...
then he can sustain a few germs
in his body too.
What do you think, Satya?
Well said, my lord!
But your body is not yours alone.
It belongs to us too.
We have rights over it.
The entire estate is praying for you
to get better.
Your elder brother
is not keeping very well.
Pardon my insolence but no one respects
your younger brother.
And the British are inching
towards the estate.
Bikrampur needs you now
more than ever.
I see.
You're determined to get me
out of here, Satya.
Please take our advice.
You'll return a completely changed man.
Please watch your step.
- Carefully...
- Come...
Please come, my lord.
Did you see, Satya?
Something is wrong.
It's been quite some time
that we've been here.
I am not getting any better.
In fact, I feel weaker.
My hands are trembling.
The target I could hit
with my eyes closed...
I am missing it.
Ashwini.
Well, actually...
This is a very difficult disease, my lord.
I see some progress...
However, it might be a little slow.
Whatever it is, Ashwini...
How can I miss my target?
The fly is working just fine.
Then, I...
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri...
has lost his impeccable aim?
How?
- Brother?
- Yes...
Can we consult with another doctor?
Of course, we can.
Of course.
I'll get a second opinion soon.
But before that, Ashwini,
why don't you change the medicines?
- No...
- Such a big target...
- Let these medicines continue...
- How can it be?
May be if I increase the dosage...
Do whatever you want, Ashwini!
But do something.
Listen...
- Send someone to the station...
- Okay.
- Find out the train's departure time.
- I'm sending someone right away.
- Don't worry...
- But what about brother...
Come, sit.
What's wrong, brother?
Is Mahendra alright?
Yes.
I got the first telegram around 7 o'clock.
It says he has stomachache
and very high fever.
He's under the doctor's supervision.
An English civil surgeon,
Dr. Calvert is taking care of him.
An Indian doctor,
Nibaran Sen was also there.
I'm really worried.
- Chandra, get up.
- Brother...
Get up, Chandra.
When can we get the death certificate?
Make arrangements for the funeral.
Go to the club once.
See if you can find people for the funeral.
Get up!
Take her inside.
Let's go.
- Praise be to God.
- May God be praised.
This is how Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri
passed away.
And he was cremated on the morning
of May 9th, 1909.
That's all, Your Honour.
Prosecution may proceed now.
Thank you, Your Honour.
As the the first witness,
I would like to call upon a corpse.
The corpse that was allegedly cremated
24 years ago on the 9th of May, 1909.
The name of the corpse is
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
Objection, My Lord.
Preemption and leading the court.
The court is being misled because...
the plaintiff's identity
has not been proven yet.
Sustained.
Counsel is requested to address
the plaintiff properly.
Yes, My Lord.
Then, I'll ask Mr. Plaintiff
to take the stand.
Please state your name for the record.
- Mahendra Kumar...
- Please speak louder.
- You're wrong...
Tell us your real name in full.
- Why will I make it up?
- I can swear you're lying.
- Why will I lie?
- How can I say?
You're wasting the court's precious time.
Please tell us your correct name in full.
- What kind of strange...
- You're wasting time...
- No, I'm not...
- No, no, no...
- My full name is Raja Mahendra Kumar...
- What did you say?
What did you say
before Mahendra Kumar?
- Raja...
- Say it loudly!
My name is Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
And I've come to reclaim my estate,
Your Honour.
- Beautiful!
- This physical body...
Neku, go check where
that sound is coming from.
I'm on it.
Oh God! What is that?
- Guru! Guru!
- What happened?
Let's go... Come on...
Come quickly...
This man is still alive...
Who is it?
So, Neku saw...
someone was lying on a funeral pyre...
writhing in pain.
Neku called us.
I realised that he was considered dead.
And he was brought to be cremated.
After that...
They left him there to take cover
from the storm.
There were sores on his hands,
feet and nose.
He was dying...
He had high fever...
And his entire body was shivering.
So, we took him
to another camp downhill.
Or else he would have died.
He would not have survived.
He was unconscious for four days
and four nights...
We nursed him around the clock.
We applied Ayurvedic medicines
on his sores.
He started getting better.
And since then,
he became one of us.
We named him Sundar Das.
But he never mentioned who he was
or where he'd come from?
No, he didn't remember anything.
Absolutely nothing.
He had lost his memory.
Since then, he travelled the country
for almost 12 years with us.
But I got to know
about the incident later.
Oh, really?
We heard a strange story from people.
Story of a feudal lord from Dhaka...
whose body disappeared
before being cremated.
I get it... Amnesia.
Great!
The easiest plot twist
for the screenplay writers and novelists.
Your Holiness, please tell us where and why
you and your disciples disappeared to?
We were in search of salvation.
Keep moving
The time is now or never
I bow my head in worship
Why can't I see you?
Why can't I find you?
I keep walking on embers
No one knows where you are
But I keep walking miles in search of you
The road is all I desire
I breathe a sigh of relief
The stifled cries of the wounded heart
Remains buried deep within
Why can't I see you?
Why can't I find you?
Keep moving
The time is now or never
I bow my head in worship
Guru, please help my sister.
She has lost her mind.
- She still believes...
- She is right.
I have seen your brother.
At Benaras.
I've crossed deserts, I've crossed seas
I've crossed storms of sorrow
Like a mystic, I've crossed mountains
I've crossed universes
They record names, they record deeds
But they don't record faces
Why can't I see you?
Why can't I find you?
Let me breathe in the Sun
Let me breathe in each stone
It's impossible to touch you
Let me just breathe in your essence
Where should we go next?
We should head West.
There are many religious places,
lots of holy men and wise sages.
Why not go South?
There are beautiful temples there.
Can't we visit those?
And the most important thing is...
Our country is surrounded by water
on the three sides.
And Kanyakumari is right in the middle of the
meeting point of the three water bodies.
What do you think, Sundar Das?
Dhaka.
Pilgrimage in Dhaka?
Are you crazy?
And if are going that way,
we can visit Kamakhya Temple too.
- Yes, right...
- Let's go...
But why Dhaka?
Guru... Guru...
I want to go back to Dhaka...
- What happened?
- Hold him...
Thousands of thoughts...
Millions of faces...
Save me, guru...
Please save me...
I'm drowning...
What's wrong with him?
Wake up, Sundar.
Wake up.
It's time for you to wake up.
Guru...
Why do I feel I must go back to Dhaka?
Because you are a king in Dhaka.
- King?
- Yes!
What should I do, guru?
You must return.
It's not yet time for you to leave
this materialistic world.
But I don't want to go back.
I've discarded this illusory world
a long time back.
Each life has a meaning, Sundar.
You've been given a second life
to fulfill a higher purpose.
Go back with my teachings
in mind.
People, places, incidents and purpose
will all come back to you.
Go forth, my child.
Claim your rightful place in the universe.
Go on...
You must return.
The day comes to an end
But the foolish is none the wiser
Why can't I see you?
Why can't I find you?
My Lord, this entire case is standing
on four salient points.
First, identification.
Second, similarity or dissimilarity between
my client and the second prince of Bikrampur.
Third, the possibility of two corpses
being cremated.
And lastly, the prince's...
Sorry...
The circumstances under which
my client's so-called demise happened.
I want to call someone very close to the
prince, his sister, Mrinmoyee Devi.
Mrinmoyee Devi, when and where
did you first see my client?
It was the beginning
of the Bengali new year.
Buddhu had told me about a hermit
who looked exactly like my brother.
I requested the Zamindar of Kasimpur, Atul
to bring him to us.
I went to see him right away.
He cut a strange figure.
Half naked, covered in ash...
What is your name, guru?
Do you want to come home with us?
We'll be truly blessed.
My name is Sundar Das.
Please come to our mansion.
We really need your blessings.
Our family has gone through
many hardships, many deaths...
Maybe your holy presence will...
Guru...
My Lord, the royal garb you're dressed in
To visit the kingdom of my heart
Millions of suns and moons
Pale in front of your glory
My Lord, the royal garb you're dressed in
All pride subsides
All ego shatters
My body and soul
Plays like the harp
My Lord, the royal garb you're dressed in
To visit the kingdom of my heart
Millions of suns and moons
Pale in front of your glory
My Lord, the royal garb you're dressed in
The breeze ushers in joy and sorrow
All the flowers in garden
Bloom at your feet
The breeze ushers in joy and sorrow
All the flowers in garden
Bloom at your feet
I gaze unflinchingly
I see nothing else in the world
I only want to delve deep into your soul
Where eternal beauty exists
My Lord, the royal garb you're dressed in
To visit the kingdom of my heart
Millions of suns and moons
Pale in front of your glory
My Lord, the royal garb you're dressed in
To visit the kingdom of my heart
Millions of suns and moons
Pale in front of your glory
Just a minute.
Let me get this straight.
You're saying that you recognised him
because he chose the sweet curd?
That's not what I meant.
The sweet curd was his favourite,
that's correct but...
For an estate earning Rs. 10 lakhs annually,
if sweet curd has to be a favourite...
then believe me, Mrinmoyee Devi...
I've never eaten anything but sweet curd.
- Order! Order!
- Your Honour...
I've scrutinised the way he looks,
his gait...
his hands while eating, his fingers,
his adam's apple...
his eyes, the split
life line on his palm...
Everything was like my brother's...
I mean Mahendra...
Okay, okay...
It's alright...
We'll come to the physical similarities
a little later.
Let's get done
with the memories first.
When you were looking at him
very carefully...
was it then that...
this imposter took advantage
of the grief-stricken sister...
and claimed that he is
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri?
Objection, Your Honour!
Leading the witness.
Yes, My Lord but towards the truth.
Order! Order! Objection sustained.
Everything is still dependent
on the evidence.
So, please address the plaintiff correctly.
Yes, My Lord.
Is that when the plaintiff of this case...
claimed the lordship over the estate?
No, never! Absolutely not!
We're the ones who forced him.
He had left and we brought him back
to the mansion.
That's the first time,
I mentioned it to him.
Guru, I want to show you some photographs.
This is Narendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
Our beloved younger brother.
He has passed away.
This is Debendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
Our beloved eldest brother.
The first prince of this province.
He has also passed away.
Why are you crying, guru?
Illusion...
Whose illusion?
He's the one closest to my heart.
The brother I love the most.
The one I loved more than my own life.
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
He passed away in Darjeeling.
Some people say...
When his body was taken for cremation,
a violent storm hit Darjeeling.
So, they left him there
and ran for cover.
Some say he was cremated...
Some say he wasn't.
What do you think, guru?
He wasn't cremated.
He's alive.
You have an uncanny resemblance
with my brother, Mahendra.
Uncanny...
- Are you my brother?
- No! No...
I have no one in this world...
I don't belong here...
- I don't belong to anyone...
- Please, wait...
What histrionics!
Hollywood would love this story.
Anyway, then what happened?
He left home in a lot of anger.
He had disappeared for days.
The family and the subjects of the estate
looked everywhere for him.
After about 16 days,
my son, Budhhu and Atul...
found him and brought him back
to the mansion.
By then the news had spread all across
Bengal. Thousands had come to see him.
The subjects started bringing him presents.
They even started saying...
the case that had to be filed to reclaim
the estate from the British...
they'll arrange for the money
to fight the case.
Pamphlets were being printed.
Stories were being written.
Bards were singing about him.
Finally, one day...
Excuse me...
I have a small request for you.
Please don't put ash on your body
after your bath.
Please move aside...
Make way...
I am certain you are my
lost brother, Mahendra.
I'm begging you...
Please tell us who you are.
Reveal your identity...
You've lost your mind!
You've gone mad.
I'm not your brother...
I'm nothing.
I'm not from this world.
I have nothing to do with this world.
This world full of envy, deceit,
treachery, greed...
Please let me go.
I don't belong here.
Please let me go...
Please don't leave us, brother...
I beg you...
We've lived by only one hope
for the last 12 years.
We've wished for the rumours
to be true.
We've wished for you to be alive.
Bikrampur is ruined, brother.
The British have taken over
our entire estate...
And just pays us some pittance.
The subjects are outraged
at their tyranny.
The entire country is
under their occupation.
If you return, hope for Bikrampur and the
entire country, will return with you...
Please don't do this to us.
You're our only hope...
Please forgive me.
I'm sorry...
This is a huge responsibilty.
Please forgive me.
I've left this realm long time back.
I don't want to return to this quicksand.
I have renounced it.
Please let me go...
Please...
- Guru... Guru...
- I'm not him... Please leave me...
Please forgive me...
Please let me go.
Please don't leave...
Please let me go...
Please sit down...
Guru, please take a seat...
- I have to go...
- Please sit...
Long live Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri!
Do you hear that, brother?
Thousands of people want you to come back.
They want you.
You're a beacon of hope,
of strength, of life for them.
You are their very own...
You belong to them.
Their own blood.
Doesn't any of this
mean anything to you?
Alright then.
Since our life has no value for you...
I'm sure our death would
not move you either.
That's why, I'm going...
to the room where we would arrange
weddings for the cats...
the room we played hide and seek in...
the shade of the mango tree
beside the window...
where you told me stories
about monsters in the afternoon...
I'm going back to that room.
To hang myself.
Minu, no...
Mother...
Anand...
Call the barber.
Long live Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri!
My Lord...
"Notice is hereby given that...
"...the board has the conclusive proof...
"...that the dead body of the Second Kumar
of Bikrampur was burnt...
"to ashes 12 years ago...
"...at Darjeeling.
"It follows, therefore...
"...that the hermit who
is calling himself...
"the Second Kumar is...
"...an imposter.
Whoever will...
"pay him rent will do so at his...
"...own risk. With...
"the permission of the Board of Revenue.
"J. H. Lindsay, Collector of Dhaka."
My Lord...
It's clear as day from this notice
and the supporting documents...
that this man is a fraud from Punjab
called Mal Singh.
And in no way, the Second Prince
of Bikrampur.
And I'll prove that
beyond reasonable doubt in this court.
So, you're claiming that you're Bikrampur's
Second Prince...
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri, correct?
Incorrect.
Oh, really? How?
You're claiming that I'm
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri. Not me.
Order! Order!
Touché!
So, Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri...
What is an LBW?
What?
LBW?
LBW...
Popping crease?
What about the Chinaman? Nothing?
True. It's not possible
to remember everything.
Okay, then tell us what is a polo banian?
No? Nearside, backhand, a chukker?
What food goes well with white wine?
What are military collars?
Lounge suit?
Chesterfield coat?
You were such an expert shot.
So, tell me...
Muzzle end? Breech end?
Dum Dum bullet? Martini Henry?
What are these?
No idea?
Even if I overlook the Hindi accent
with which you speak Bengali...
Are you trying to say that...
Bikrampur's Second Prince who was...
accustomed to the English way of life...
who wore clothes
in the latest English fashion.
Who loved playing polo and cricket...
who was one of the best shooters
and horse riders around these parts...
he doesn't know
what any of these words mean?
Or maybe the farmer from Punjab, Mal Singh,
hasn't been tutored properly?
But he had forgotten that an imposter
can claim property, not royal blood.
I don't want the estate!
I am not doing it for myself.
This is not my domain...
I had no such desire.
I had told my teacher...
that I don't want to come back.
I had told Minu...
I had even told Anand...
I told Grandmother...
I had tried to reason with the officials
and the subjects of the estate.
My Lord...
All this is not for me.
I've only come back for my farmers.
The ones who can't pay their taxes
to the British during the drought.
My Lord, I've come back for my sister.
The sister who lived for 12 years only
with the hope that her brother is alive.
My Lord...
I've been scrutinised like an animal
to check the marks on my body.
Your Honour, the police tried
to threaten me.
Even high ranking British officials
tried to scare me.
There's been attempts on my life as well.
I'm very tired, Your Honour.
I'm very tired.
Please let me go, Your Honour.
Your witness.
So, Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri...
Do you sing well?
Can you sing?
Yes, sir.
Can you sing us a couple of lines?
Objection, My Lord!
I think my learned friend is trying
to organise a soirée in the court.
Although, I am a music lover myself...
but I'm sure this falls
under the contempt of court.
I'm asking these questions to further
my line of argument.
- Objection overruled.
- Thank you, My Lord.
Let's hear a couple of lines.
We're like birds, father
We are going to fly away
Wonderful! You sing quite well.
Now, tell what is a legato?
A capella? Arpeggio?
You have no idea?
The major E scale?
The straight technique in music?
What about the different rhythms
in Indian classical music? No idea.
My lord, rumour is you were a regular
at the whore houses of Calcutta.
I mean...
You were addicted to women.
Apart from your wife,
you had many other lovers.
You had an adventurous sex life...
Is it true?
Yes...
Well, now tell the court
what is a clitoral orgasm?
What is testosterone?
What is erectile dysfunction?
At least, tell me the meaning of fellatio?
Objection, My Lord!
Inconsequential! Irrelevant! Obscene!
The counsel should think before he speaks
at least in court.
Objection sustained.
What are you trying to prove, Mr. Mukherji?
Nothing much, My Lord.
Just trying to say that...
any person can be a good shot
or a great rider...
Any ordinary person can be very dextrous...
based on their natural ability.
But that doesn't mean that he'll know
every jargon of that discipline.
My learned friend has been trying to prove
that Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri...
was almost an Englishman
in the way he led his life.
It's not just laughable but a complete lie.
Because Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri...
never used cutlery to eat.
He never spoke English.
In fact, he stayed a million miles away
from the English influence.
Ram Singh Subha,
you're saying...
At 7.30 in the evening, you saw
Raja Mahendra's dead body and...
And his family members were lamenting.
Yes, sir.
But the Defense Counsel is insisting
that the time of death is...
is 12 at night.
And that's why the last rites
were performed in the morning.
No, sir. I remember very clearly.
I walked in at 7.30.
And I saw Satya explaining something...
And I noticed the women
of the household crying.
So, you're saying you're certain
about the time of death.
No, Your Honour.
I will trouble you one last time.
I know you've lost someone
you loved...
And you're still mourning that loss.
But I would still request you to look
at that man carefully, Chandraboti Devi.
Is he your husband,
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri?
No.
He is not my husband.
I don't know him.
Silence in the court. Order. Order!
Order! Order! Order!
Thank you, Chandraboti Devi.
My Lord, we all know the
dire conditions under
which widows live in the Hindu society.
Even though she could have found
an easy way out of this misery...
My client has proven herself
to be a truthful, honest, righteous woman.
And she has exposed this imposter
for who he really is.
Your witness.
Chandraboti Devi, please take another look
at that person.
Are you positive that man
is not your husband?
Yes, I'm sure.
Order! Order!
Good.
Then how does he know the marks
and spots on your body...
that only your husband can know?
- What is all this?
- Please keep calm...
Please be quiet...
- Please present the list to the court.
- Please maintain order.
The first point on the list mentions
a mole on...
Objection, My Lord!
What exactly is happening here?
In open court, my client, in fact a lady
is being blatantly insulted.
Since, you're objecting, please tell us
where is it mentioned in the lawbooks...
that only women can be insulted?
According to you, only women
deserve respect. And men don't.
You've been calling my client
a fraud, trickster, an imposter...
Mr. Mukherji.
- You've been insulting him...
- But that's what we're trying to prove...
Mr. Mukherji, a word.
Yes, tell me.
I might be a bad husband.
I've might have neglected my wife.
But she's still my wife.
So, if you want to present any evidence,
do it in private.
They're trying to prove that
you're a fraud, an imposter...
She can make us lose the case.
I don't care if we lose.
It doesn't matter
what they call me, Mr. Mukherji.
She is my wife even today.
And the queen of Bikrampur.
And you can't talk to a queen like that.
You may go now.
- But, brother...
- Minu, I said what I had to.
Chandraboti Devi, tell us
about your husband's nature and character.
Women of the royal family don't discuss
their husbands in public.
Were you happily married
to your husband?
He didn't have time for you.
He spent more time with his mistresses.
He literally lived in the whore houses.
He contracted syphilis.
Let's say, if he disappeared,
if he was somehow lost...
However painful widowhood might be...
Would you ever want that wanton,
depraved man back?
Would you?
You finally came?
I thought you would stand me up.
You reached out after such a long time...
- What did you want to talk about?
- Please, sit.
How is your wife? Your son?
As far as I know, they're fine.
Did you call me here to discuss
my family?
No... No...
Even if we assume...
that your client is really Bikrampur's
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
But why are you fighting so hard
for a cruel, abominal, depraved man?
I am working hard to protect
my client's interest.
And nothing can harm him.
It's my job to give him back
what is rightfully his.
The estate, maybe.
But when the wife isn't accepting him
as the husband.
And a section of people
will always doubt him.
In this scenario, I'm sure your client
is not expecting to win everything back.
I don't know the current valuation
of the Bikrampur estate.
Or the mental condition
of Chandraboti Devi.
But if my client wins this case,
Satya will lose.
But truth will prevail.
Truth is the greatest triumph
in itself, Anupama.
Well, actually...
You've never been able to evaluate...
or understand anyone's
mental state ever.
No point discussing that now.
But what if the truth is that he is not
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri?
That doesn't matter.
I'm fighting for a greater truth
through this case.
Self-governance... the British
oppression... Etcetera...
Etcetera... Etcetera...
Etcetera...
Khudiram Bose...
Bhagat Singh...
Ashfaqulla Khan...
Master Surya Sen...
A lot of people like them have been framed
in false cases and hanged to death.
True.
The only weapon they had...
The British Law.
I want to use their own laws
and rules against them and win this case.
For 200 years, they've been looting
our country with this excuse.
Even if it's just this once, it's
time for us to give it back to them.
Wonderful! Your Indian National Congress
membership is just a formality now.
So is your Ray Bahadur title!
Why are you representing
the British in this case?
What if that man is really the King?
That's why I'm fighting even more fiercely.
What do you mean?
I just don't want that scoundrel
to get the estate back.
She's a young girl... Unwell... His wife...
He left her alone night after night
to indulge himself.
I don't want him to ruin anyone else's life
just because he can.
- I won't let that happen.
- And what about justice?
He might be a man of bad character
but he should get what is legally...
Legally?
Bhaskar, Law is neither British nor Indian.
It's just Male.
Not again...
So please keep fighting for
the abstract map you call country...
I'll fight for my real flesh
and blood Chandraboti.
Why didn't you appear for the last hearing?
Not confident of the testimony
you've been tutored?
They scared me, Your Honour.
The police officer said he'll beat me up...
if I spoke for Mahendra Kumar.
They said they'll give me Rs. 50
to speak against him.
I might be a prostitute...
but I had loved that man once.
With all my heart.
How could I stay away?
I got to know about his death on 8th May,
in the evening.
I was getting ready to go
to the Victoria Hospital.
I heard the wailing of some women.
On 8th May, a strange incident took place
in Victoria Hospital.
Incident in the hospital?
Do you remember?
No.
Please try to remember.
This is very important.
Nothing is coming to my mind now.
Please try a little harder.
My Lord, please give him some time.
This is really very important.
I know it's an incident that took place
26 years ago but please try.
I can't.
Oh wait... wait... wait...
I think I remember...
The dead body of a Lepcha had disappeared.
It had vanished from the morgue.
I remember clearly now.
Fair, fat... What was the name?
Why can't I remember his name?
What was it?
- Pengumche?
- Yes, Pengumche!
But how did you know?
For the last two years, we've heard
the testimonies of 400 witnesses.
That includes his lord's sisters, their
husbands, their children, their servants...
their employees, their subjects...
They've unanimously attested
that my client is...
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
So, now I'll call someone
who has testified against him.
Mr. Satya Banerjee,
please take the stand.
Mr. Banerjee, I'm having some trouble
with the timeline.
You said Mahendra died on 8th May.
Then, why was he cremated
on 9th May?
Why did you wait for so long?
Actually, it was quite late at night...
Around midnight...
That's why...
his last rites...
But Ram Singh said he
died at around 7:30 PM.
What were you doing between 7:30 PM
and the next morning?
Listen.
Please write a draft of the condolence
message that Dr. Calvert will send Debendra.
Offer him some of Chandra's jewellery.
Get up... Get up!
Please take her inside.
Let's go...
It's raining cats and dogs!
- Let's go...
- But where?
- We'll cremate him later...
- But what about his lordship's body?
Come with me...
- But what about the body?
- Ashwini, please let's go...
Let's take cover somewhere.
We'll figure it out later.
The rain has stopped...
Let's go...
- Has the rain stopped?
- Yes, let's go.
Let's go...
Be quick about it...
Come, Ashwini.
Where did the body go?
Ghost! Ghost!
Where's the body?
Where is it?
You all look that side...
Where can the body go?
Look that side...
Find him right now!
Search carefully.
- Ashwini, listen carefully...
- Yes...
He has disappeared...
He knows everything...
He'll know only if he's alive.
You said he's clinically dead...
Yes, I did.
- You said clinically dead, didn't you?
- I did! I did!
Now, listen to me calmly...
Clinically dead, right?
What if I made a mistake?
What if he's not clinically dead?
What if he comes back?
What if we're wrong?
Shut up...
Don't say another word.
Listen to me very carefully...
This is what we're going to do next...
We have to find false witnesses.
We need a fake death certificate.
We'll need to print an obituary
in the newspaper.
What is most important right now...
We need a body to cremate.
We need a body, Ashwini.
- A body?
- A body...
- We need a body...
- I can't do this... I can't do it...
I can't get a dead body...
I am sorry...
Please, understand this very clearly...
I can't do it.
Put this in your head so that
you can say this in your sleep too.
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri
died of a disease.
What is the name of the disease?
Tell me... Tell me...
- Biliary colic... Biliary colic... Biliary colic...
Ashwini?
Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri
was not murdered.
He...
- He what?
- He died...
- He died... He died... He died...
- Yes... Yes...
Do you go to Victoria Hospital?
Do you go to Victoria Hospital?!
Yes... Yes...
Do they have a morgue?
Do they have a morgue?!
Get up... Get up...
Take her inside...
Let's go...
- Praise be to God.
- May God be praised.
So, Satya...
On the morning of 9th May, 1909,
at the Darjeeling crematorium...
a dead body was cremated
under your supervision. Right?
On the morning of 9th May, 1909,
at the Darjeeling crematorium...
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri's last rites
were performed under my supervision. Yes.
That's what I said.
But that's not the question.
The question is...
Was Mahendra a practising Hindu?
Obviously, he was.
He was a Brahmin of the highest order.
What kind of a question is this?
Objection, My Lord.
The prosecution is wasting court's time.
Overruled. Please carry on.
So, a Hindu of the highest order.
And we know
that he didn't have any children.
Then, who performed the last rites? You?
No...
- What?!
- No! No!
Okay. Was it a close relative?
No, no one...
No one performed the ritual.
Okay but do you remember the name of
the priest who presided over the ceremony?
No priest was available...
Your Honour, a lot of time had passed...
We couldn't perform all the rites and rituals
according to the scriptures that day.
And the body was decomposing...
His lordship's body was...
The body was washed, clarified butter
applied and new clothes were put on it...
No...
- What?!
- I said no...
Didn't I just say no?
Didn't I? I said no.
- Yes, you did...
- Yes, I did... I did!
You did.
You also said that the body was left
unsupervised for a long time.
No one saw it at Darjeeling's Step Aside
or at the crematorium.
You've also said...
That Bengal's biggest estate holder's funeral
took place like a morgue's unclaimed body...
Or was it the unclaimed body from
the morgue that was cremated?
Objection, My Lord!
My learned friend, without any evidence...
purely based on guesswork...
is bringing up false accusations
and confusing the witness.
Sustained.
Instead of false accusations...
I would request the prosecution
to concentrate on hard evidence.
Next witness.
You're free to go.
I'll call you again...
I would like to call Dr. Ashwini Dasgupta
to the stand.
My Lord, I would now like the court to
pay attention to evidence 245A.
A prescription from Smith Stanistreet Pharmacy
dated 7th May. Just a day before Mahendra's death.
Did you write this prescription, Ashwini?
- No, this was written by Dr. Calvert?
- Look carefully... Who wrote it?
- Really?
- Dr. Calvert wrote it.
And is the signature at the end
of the prescription yours?
It was a long time ago...
I didn't quite remember...
You can't remember?
Look carefully...
Whose signature is this?
I'm writing a high dosage
for both the medicines in the prescription.
If we show both the prescriptions
then the actual ailment will be hidden.
Yes, Dr. Calvert forced me to write it.
Then why did Dr. Calvert deny this
at the London Commission?
I don't know.
You don't know.
And whatever I am saying is the truth.
- But you have no idea.
- No.
Okay, then let's check
the facts that we have.
Let's see the medicines
prescribed for Mahendra.
Quinine sulphate which is deadly
for the stomach.
Aloin, Enonymin which are strong laxatives.
Nux vomica which has fatal Strychnine.
And the most dangerous Arsenic.
We know what the patient
was suffering from.
Blood loss, dysentery,
dehydration, anaemia...
And we also know that each one of them
is a symptom of arsenic poisoning.
I didn't kill him!
Ashwini... Satya...
Please don't give me any more injections.
- Please let me go...
- Nothing will happen, my lord...
- It's just a pin prick.
- No, no more...
- Injection is the only way to administer...
- I don't want any injections...
Please don't give me any more injections...
Satya, my mother died
because of injections.
I don't want to die...
Forgive me, my lord.
But you're making a mistake.
She died of cholera.
She accidentally drank
some contaminated water.
Not because of injections.
See, it was cholera...
Poison...
I know this is poison.
I am Mahendra.
Give it to me...
I'll swallow it.
Many kings have been poisoned
throughout history.
Poison me too...
Satya, no issues with that...
I'll drink it up...
Give me the poison.
Ashwini...
- Brother-in-law, please forgive me...
- I don't want injection...
Please forgive me...
My future... Chandra's future...
All the people who depend on you...
I'll have to take responsibility
for everything.
It'll be quicker if we inject.
It won't hurt at all.
Okay.
Then, at least, stop this dysentery, Satya.
I just want to leave this world
with some dignity.
I'm a king... Satya... Satya...
Ashwini, I beg of you...
I made you a doctor, Ashwini.
This dirty bed, this stench, this filth...
I can't...
I am a king...
Satya, I'm a king.
Let me die like one...
Yes, yes, you're a king...
- Please let me die like a king...
- Yes, a few more hours.
Let me... Let me...
- Please calm down.
- Please calm down...
The blood letting is crucial along with dysentery.
The injection is going to make it quicker.
Almost done.
Lies! Lies! Lies! I'm innocent!
I didn't give him arsenic.
You're lying.
I'm innocent!
Objection, My Lord!
Intimidation of the witness.
My learned friend has forgotten
that this is a court of law.
And he can't win the case
by shouting without reason here.
What else can I do, My Lord?
This witness is lying through his teeth.
Your Honour, this case is not about
what Satya or Ashwini did.
This case is neither about murder.
The court only wants to verify
the time of death...
whether he was cremated...
And the gentleman sitting here
is Bikrampur's Second Prince...
Mahendra Chaudhuri or Punjab's Mal Singh.
That's all.
- Sustained.
- Thank you, My Lord.
The court is hereby adjourned
till the next hearing.
Memory can be tampered with, Your Honour.
And we've also learnt from the Opposition
that letters can be forged.
Even witnesses can be bought.
But Nature?
That can't be denied, Your Honour.
No one can change a birthmark,
physical characteristics, spots, wounds...
The marks that Time creates on our bodies
separates us from others.
Makes us unique... Makes us distinct.
As unique as our fingerprints.
That's why I demand a thorough
physical examination of my client.
Although, my client and Raja Mahendra Kumar
Chaudhuri are similar looking.
- Even then...
- Objection, My Lord.
I want to remind the court
that when we were...
trying to prove the identity of the
plaintiff as Punjab's Mal Singh...
And that's why we minutely
compared a photograph...
of Mahendra with the plaintiff.
All the painters
and photographers observed that...
It's the nose.
The difference is maximum
in terms of the nose.
Everything is similar except for the nose.
The nose is a little different.
Hence, it's obvious from the shape
of the nose that...
they are two different individuals.
Then isn't this process poking one's nose
in matters of justice.
We'll be wasting the
court's precious time...
My Lord, my client has been waiting
for 27 years for his rights.
Can't we spare 27 minutes for him?
Is he waiting for 27
years for his rights...
Or for a golden opportunity?
But that time will tell.
But you'll have to let time do the talking?
If you keep gagging it with,
"Objection, My Lord"...
How will it speak?
Who knows better
than my learned friend here...
to establish the truth...
one must face a lot of
"Objection, My Lord."
One has to work around the system.
Order. Order.
Both of you, please calm down.
I'll not tolerate this kind of behaviour
in my court.
Sorry, Your Honour.
I would like to call the plaintiff
to the stand.
31 years ago,
on 5th March, 1905...
Dr. Caddy of the insurance company
documented in details...
a list of the marks and wounds on the
body that I'll now present to the Court.
My Lord, before the doctors check,
may we hear the list first?
Complexion, pink and white.
Brownish wavy hair.
Moustache, lighter than hair.
Brownish eyes.
Fleshy growth below the right eye.
Twist on the right lower lip.
Ears at a sharp angle at the rim.
With lobes,
not adherant to the cheek.
Prominent Adam's apple.
Broken left upper first molar tooth.
Scales on the right hand.
Irregular scar on top of the left ankle.
Tiger claw marks on the right arm.
And a small mole on the dorsum
of the penis.
All yours, Doctors.
My Lord, we've checked for all the points
in the list.
This individual...
has all the marks on his body.
Every single feature matched.
Every single scar...
Long live
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri!
I've considered the whole evidence
in the case...
with utmost care.
The very able arguments of learned counsels
on either side...
have missed, I believe, nothing material
that could be urged...
for or against the vital factor
of identity.
There has been evidence
of honest men and women...
of all ranks and conditions of life.
Including, nearly all the relations...
And among them, the sister, the First Queen
and Second Queen's own aunt...
and her own cousin.
There were inconclusive weather reports...
Mysterious prescriptions...
And conflicting entries
and testimonies.
There were solid financial motives for
Satya, Ashwini and the Court of Wards...
to prove him to be an imposter.
And lack of solid financial
or otherwise motives...
for peasants, tenants, strangers
standing by their erstwhile feudal lord.
But the conclusive, clinching criterion...
was the mathematical certainty
of the bodily marks.
And the cent percent matching.
Hence, I find...
the plaintiff to be
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
The Second Prince of Bikrampur.
We won! We won!
Long live
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri!
Congratulations for now!
A disgusting man got away because of you
for the time being.
But they'll appeal to High Court.
I'm only an agent.
Destiny has picked him up from the funeral
pyre and given him a second chance.
Who are we to stop him?
How touching!
If only Mr. Destiny had a bit of sympathy
for Chandraboti...
the poor girl could have got
a second chance...
at leading a normal life.
But no matter what the grammar books say,
Destiny will always be a man.
Not everyone gets
a second chance, Anupama.
Like your client.
Like me.
Not everyone deserves
a second chance, Bhaskar.
Like your client, like you.
I know...
I used our relationship as an excuse
to stop you from practising law.
I know if I didn't stop you that day...
you could have been the first
female barrister of India
instead of Cornelia Sohrabjee.
I know.
But even a murder convict
gets a fair hearing.
What can I do, my learned friend?
You don't deserve to be either a friend
or a husband.
Anyway, good bye.
We'll meet again.
Right.
See you in court.
The way rains touch the earth
The way the Morning star shines
in the night's heart
And life flows on
Hey beautiful, come join the festivities
Forget all your doubts in
the rhythm of the music
The door is open, no more delay
Hey beautiful, come join the festivities
Hence I find Justice Basu's judgement...
rigourously and impeccably derived
from the available evidence.
And have no reason to uphold the appeal
by Rani Chandraboti.
So, in my opinion therefore...
the appeal should be
dismissed with costs.
And the verdict of the learned trial Judge
should be upheld.
Long live
Raja Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri!
Hence I'm inclined to believe that the
plaintiff is a Punjabi named Mal Singh.
He had failed utterly
to prove affirmatively
that he is Mahendra Kumar Chaudhuri.
I'm satisfied therefore
that he is an imposter
supported by Mrinmoyee Devi and others.
In my opinion, therefore,
an appeal should be allowed with costs.
The judgement and the decree of the
original court should be set aside...
and the suit should
be dismissed with costs.
The game has just begun.
This case is beyond a doubt...
one of the most interesting
and remarkable...
that has ever come
before a court of law...
in this country or indeed any other.
A case which it is no
exaggeration to say...
is unique in legal annals.
Before the case,
I would, however, like to comment...
on the nature of the country
called India.
India knows her men, women,
rivers, mountains...
history, traditions and emotions
better than any Englishman.
So, it's time that we trust her
to take her own decisions.
How are you, Chandra?
I'm... I'm fine...
And you?
I am... well...
I am real...
not a fake husband...
You've never had a husband, Chandra...
Just a master with disgusting boils
from syphilis.
Is there a reason to feel elated
when a man like this comes back?
There's no reason to hang him either.
Like some people we know...
he hasn't murdered anyone
neither has he attempted murder.
- Minu...
- He has never betrayed anyone...
He has never tried to cheat
the man who provided for him.
The disgusting boils of syphilis
can be treated, Satya but...
a poisonous heart and a weak spine
can't be fixed.
It'll be better if neither one of you spoke
of deception.
And don't forget the
Privy Council in London.
And even if we lose there...
There's another Judge above all of us.
He has His own court, lawyers, records...
He will punish Falsehood.
He surely will.
Let's go, Chandra.
Wait...
Let's go... Let's go...
Brother...
I just got the news...
They had appealed to the Privy Council.
What a surprise!
What happened?
The case...
Tell us what happened?
We've won.
By God's grace!
You've been away from home
for the last 37 years, brother.
Let's go back...
Let's go home...
Before that tomorrow, we should offer
our prayers to Goddess Kali...
What is it, brother?
Nothing...
How did you hear him through
the howling wind and storm?
You were looking for salvation
but instead you found a fortune, right?
It's not your time yet...
You'll know when the time is right.
There's another Judge above all of us.
He has His own court, lawyers, records...
He will punish Falsehood.
Who are you? Who am I?
Where have we come from?
Who is my mother?
Who is my father?
Renounce this dreamlike world
And achieve enlightenment
Thousands of past lives
Like birth marks
Glow like the stars
I don't remember who I was
The Milky Way becomes my body
Who am I?
Where is my place?
Who are you? Who am I?
Where have we come from?
Who is my mother?
Who is my father?
Renounce this dreamlike world
And achieve enlightenment
Am I who I am?
Or is it someone else?
The same face
But different addresses
The way I was created from the elements
I will dissipate in to the elements
Who am I?
Where is my place?
Whether you remember or forget
Life waits for you to return
Watch the light changing direction
In the cosmos every moment
Who am I?
Where is my place?
Every life grants me a brand new day.
I find myself in day old dates.
So many people have walked down this road.
Their stories sound just like mine.
Who am I?
Where is my place?
Who are you? Who am I?
Where have we come from?
Who is my mother?
Who is my father?
Renounce this dreamlike world
And achieve enlightenment